This document contains three separate licensing agreements, identified
as "LICENSE.TXT FILE for Nios II v13.0 EDS," "MegaCore Function
License Agreement," and "Quartus II, Version 13.0 Standard License
Agreement." Acceptance of the terms and conditions of this document
serves as an acceptance of each of the three licensing agreements as
if they were individually and separately accepted.  The terms and
conditions of each of the three separate licensing agreements in this
document is deemed to be the terms and conditions of a standalone
licensing agreement and governs its respective licensing agreement
without modifying the terms and conditions of other licensing
agreements in this document.

The following provision applies to all three licensing agreements
below: Altera may store your data and information on its own servers
or on servers hosted by third parties.  If Altera is providing any
software to you for use via the Internet, such software may also be
stored on our servers or servers hosted by third parties.  For any
information, data or software hosted by a third party, although every
reasonable effort will be made to keep data and information secure,
Altera is not liable for data or information that is inadvertently
disclosed by the third party or for any system downtime related to the
third party servers.

FOR QUARTUS II, VERSION 13.0, ALL DISTRIBUTIONS (WEB DOWNLOAD, CDS,
DVDS)



QUARTUS II, VERSION 13.0  STANDARD LICENSE AGREEMENT:


ALTERA PROGRAM LICENSE SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT

PLEASE REVIEW THE FOLLOWING TERMS AND CONDITIONS CONTAINED IN THIS
ALTERA PROGRAM LICENSE SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT (THIS "AGREEMENT")
CAREFULLY BEFORE INSTALLING OR USING THE SOFTWARE (AS DEFINED BELOW)
PROVIDED TO YOU ON DVD, VIA A WEB-SITE, OR ON ANOTHER MEDIUM OR
THROUGH ANOTHER DELIVERY MECHANISM.  BY INSTALLING OR USING THE
SOFTWARE OR PAYING A SUBSCRIPTION FEE OR OTHER APPLICABLE FEE TO
ALTERA (AS DEFINED BELOW) OR AN ALTERA AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR (AS
DEFINED BELOW), YOU INDICATE YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
YOU AND ALTERA CORPORATION OR THE ALTERA CORPORATION SUBSIDIARY FROM
WHICH YOU HAVE ACQUIRED THIS LICENSE (TOGETHER WITH ALTERA
CORPORATION, COLLECTIVELY OR INDIVIDUALLY, "ALTERA").  YOU MAY ALSO BE
SUBJECT TO A SEPARATE AGREEMENT WITH AN AUTHORIZED ALTERA DISTRIBUTOR,
RESELLER, OR OEM (EACH, "AN ALTERA AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR") FROM WHICH
YOU HAVE ACQUIRED A LICENSE TO THE SOFTWARE.  IN THE EVENT OF ANY
INCONSISTENCY BETWEEN THIS AGREEMENT AND SUCH SEPARATE AGREEMENT, THIS
AGREEMENT SHALL APPLY EXCEPT WITH RESPECT TO PAYMENT TERMS.

IN ADDITION, THE SOFTWARE MAY CONTAIN PARTICULAR COMPONENTS, FILES, OR
PORTIONS THAT ARE SUBJECT TO SEPARATE LICENSE AGREEMENTS WITH
DIFFERENT AND/OR ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.  IN EACH SUCH CASE,
THE APPLICABLE TERMS AND CONDITIONS ARE SET FORTH IN A FILE (CALLED
"LICENSE.TXT") IN A SEPARATELY MARKED SECTION.  THE INDIVIDUAL TERMS
AND CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN LICENSE.TXT EXCLUSIVELY GOVERN THE NAMED
COMPONENTS.  BY INSTALLING OR USING THE SOFTWARE OR PAYING A
SUBSCRIPTION OR OTHER APPLICABLE FEE, YOU INDICATE YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF
THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS CONTAINED IN LICENSE.TXT.

IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH ANY OF THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS CONTAINED
IN THIS AGREEMENT OR THE LICENSE.TXT, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, COPY, INSTALL,
OR USE THE SOFTWARE; IF YOU HAVE RECEIVED A COPY ON DVD OR ANOTHER
MEDIUM, PLEASE PROMPTLY RETURN THE SOFTWARE UNUSED TO ALTERA OR THE
ALTERA AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR FROM WHICH YOU PURCHASED A LICENSE TO
THE SOFTWARE.

IF YOU WISH TO PRINT OUT THIS AGREEMENT AND THE LICENSE.TXT, YOU
SHOULD HIGHLIGHT THIS TEXT, RIGHT-CLICK, SELECT "COPY" THEN "PASTE" IT
INTO A DOCUMENT IN YOUR WORD PROCESSING PROGRAM.

1.  Definitions:

"IP megafunctions or components" means one or more design files,
including encrypted net lists, RTL, test vectors, simulation models
(such as VHDL, Verilog HDL, Quartus simulation, Matlab, Simulink,
Verisity Specman, Synopsys Vera, etc.), and other models, which may be
provided either as unencrypted source code, obfuscated source code or
in encrypted netlist or encrypted source code format, that are
designed to implement or support the design of at least one logic
function into an Altera logic device.  "IP megafunctions or
components" includes any updates thereto or modified versions thereof
as may be provided by Altera, in its sole and absolute discretion, to
Licensee under this Agreement.  "IP megafunctions or components" does
not include any software or design files for any MegaCore(r) functions
(including the Nios(r) II embedded processor) distributed by Altera,
which are covered by a separate MegaCore(r) Function License
Agreement.

"Licensed Program" means whichever features of the Software that are
enabled by the software protection mechanism corresponding to the
configuration Licensee has licensed.

"Licensee" means you.

"Software" means any of the software provided under this Agreement on
DVD, via a web-site, or on another medium or through another delivery
mechanism, including any non-subscribed or unenabled features thereof,
any IP megafunctions or components provided with the Software (except
as noted in definition of "IP megafunctions or components" above), and
any associated user documentation.  "Software" does not include
components, files, or portions identified in particular files, which
components, files, or portions are subject to the applicable license
agreement(s) set forth therein.

"Support" means any services provided to Licensee by Altera, Altera
Authorized Distributors, and Altera authorized sales representatives
in responding to email, telephone, or other inquiries from Licensee
for maintenance, technical, or other support.

2.  License to the Licensed Program:  By this Agreement, Altera hereby
grants to Licensee a non-exclusive license to use the Licensed Program
(and any updates thereof for which Licensee have paid a subscription
fee or other applicable fee to Altera or an Altera Authorized
Distributor) on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
Any features for which Licensee has not paid a subscription fee other
applicable fee to Altera or an Altera Authorized Distributor or any
other unenabled features of the Software (unless Altera or the Altera
Authorized Distributor provides a software protection enabling key or
code for such unenabled features) are unlicensed, and Licensee agrees
not to use or access such features.  Certain licenses to the Licensed
Program are time limited, to the extent designated by Altera or the
Altera Authorized Distributor and as such may be set forth in the
feature line license key that is issued and will automatically
time-out at the end of the designated period.

The source code of the Software and the algorithms, concepts,
techniques, methods, and processes embodied therein constitute trade
secrets and confidential and proprietary information of Altera and its
licensors, and Licensee shall not access or use such trade secrets and
information in any manner, except to the extent expressly permitted
herein.  Altera and its licensors retain all title, copyright, patent,
and other proprietary rights therein. Licensee agrees not to remove or
obscure any copyright, trademark, or patent notices found in or on any
user documentation or the Software.

Pursuant to this Agreement, Licensee may: (a) use the Licensed Program
on a single computer (or, if Licensee has purchased a floating node
license, the number of concurrent users for which Licensee has
obtained licenses from Altera may use the Licensed Program on
networked workstations); (b) use the Licensed Program for the sole
purpose of creating, simulating, verifying, placing and routing, and
programming designs on logic devices manufactured by Altera and sold
by Altera or its authorized distributors, although if Licensee has
obtained the Licensed Program through Altera's University Program or
obtained a Student Version, Licensee is only permitted to use the
Licensed Program for educational and academic purposes only and
expressly excluding any commercial purposes; (c) Licensee may only use
simulation model output files generated by the "Simgen" feature of the
Licensed Software for simulation purposes and expressly not for
synthesis or any other purposes; (d) make one copy of the Licensed
Program in any computer-readable or printed form for back-up or
archival purposes or as otherwise permitted under this Agreement; and
(e) modify the Licensed Program and/or merge it into another program
solely in order to facilitate the management of software licensing
controls of the Licensed Program and third party software licensed
using Flex LM software, provided all intellectual property notices
including copyright and restricted rights notices appearing on the
Licensed Program are included on any such copy, modification, or
portion merged or combined with the other program. Any copy or portion
of the Licensed Program merged into another program will continue to
be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  Licensee's
end customers may use Altera's logic devices that have been programmed
with the Licensed Program.

The Licensed Program may be transferred to another party provided the
other party agrees to accept the terms and conditions of this
Agreement and Licensee notifies Altera in writing of the identity of
the transferee. If Licensee transfers the Licensed Program in
accordance with the foregoing sentence, Licensee must at the same time
either transfer all copies, whether in printed or computer-readable
form, to the same party or destroy any copies not transferred,
including all portions of the Licensed Program contained or merged
into another program, and certify the same to Altera. If Licensee has
purchased a floating node license as provided above, Licensee may also
copy the Licensed Program onto another computer (or access it through
networked workstations) for use by another person or persons within
your company only; provided that all users agree to accept the terms
and conditions of this Agreement.

LICENSEE MAY NOT USE, COPY, MODIFY, DISTRIBUTE, OR TRANSFER THE
SOFTWARE OR ANY COPY, OR MERGED OR COMBINED PORTION THEREOF, IN WHOLE
OR IN PART, EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED FOR IN THIS AGREEMENT.
LICENSEE SHALL NOT USE THE SOFTWARE TO PROGRAM ANY DEVICE OTHER THAN
THOSE DESIGNED BY ALTERA.  IF LICENSEE TRANSFERS POSSESSION OF ANY
COPY, OR MERGED OR COMBINED PORTION OF THE SOFTWARE, TO ANOTHER PARTY
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED HEREIN, LICENSEE'S LICENSE IS
AUTOMATICALLY TERMINATED. LICENSEE MAY NOT DECOMPILE, DISASSEMBLE,
REVERSE ENGINEER, OR OTHERWISE ATTEMPT TO ACCESS THE SOURCE CODE OF
THE SOFTWARE OR REDUCE IT TO A HUMAN READABLE FORM; PROVIDED, HOWEVER,
THAT IF LICENSEE IS LOCATED IN A MEMBER NATION OF THE EUROPEAN
COMMUNITY OR OTHER JURISDICTION THAT PERMITS LIMITED REVERSE
ENGINEERING, LICENSEE MAY PERFORM LIMITED REVERSE ENGINEERING, BUT
ONLY AFTER GIVING NOTICE TO ALTERA AND ONLY TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
THE EC SOFTWARE DIRECTIVE OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.  LICENSEE MAY NOT
PUBLISH OR DISCLOSE THE RESULTS OF ANY BENCHMARKING OF THE SOFTWARE,
OR USE SUCH RESULTS FOR LICENSEE'S OWN COMPETING SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
ACTIVITIES, WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN PERMISSION OF ALTERA.

If Licensee has paid a subscription fee or other applicable fee to
Altera or an Altera Authorized Distributor, Altera or such Altera
Authorized Distributor, as the case may be, shall, but only until the
date through which Licensee has purchased a valid subscription or paid
the applicable fees, provide Licensee with fixes and other updates to
the Licensed Program that Altera chooses to make generally available
to its customers who have paid a subscription fee or other applicable
fee to Altera or the Altera Authorized Distributor; and use
commercially reasonable efforts to respond by telephone or email to
inquiries from Licensee for technical or other Support regarding the
Licensed Program.  Any information collected by Altera or the Altera
Authorized Distributor from Licensee pursuant to any requests from
Licensee for Support, including design files compiled using the
Licensed Program and provided by Licensee to Altera or the Altera
Authorized Distributor for design assistance, enhancement, and
troubleshooting, may be used internally at Altera for the purpose of
improving the future versions of the Software and other future
products.  Any such information will not be disclosed by Altera to any
third parties other than its subsidiaries, its authorized
distributors, its authorized sales representatives, and to the company
on behalf of whom user is using the Licensed Program.  Altera shall
exercise reasonable efforts to maintain the confidentiality of the
information.

3. Altera's Licensors:  The Software may contain or be derived from
portions of code and documentation provided by third parties ("Third
Party Licensors") who may include, without limitation, Sun
Microsystems, Inc., The Regents of the University of California,
Softel vdm, Verific Design Automation, Inc., and Compass Design
Automation, Inc. under license to Altera.  Altera has assumed
responsibility for the selection of such code and documentation and
its use in producing and licensing the Licensed Program. THIRD PARTY
LICENSORS DISCLAIM ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS
WITH RESPECT TO THE USE OF SUCH CODE OR DOCUMENTATION IN THE SOFTWARE,
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE, AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  THIRD
PARTY LICENSORS DISCLAIM ALL LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, AND CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES, SUCH AS EXPENSES, RECALL COSTS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION
DAMAGES, LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO INFORMATION, LOST PROFITS, LOST SAVINGS,
OR OTHER DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE
SOFTWARE.

4. Term:  The license is effective until terminated. Licensee may
terminate it at any time by destroying the Software together with all
copies, modifications, and merged portions thereof in any form. It
will also terminate upon conditions set forth elsewhere in this
Agreement or if Licensee fails to comply with any term or condition of
this Agreement. Licensee agrees upon such termination to destroy the
Software together with all copies, and merged or combined portions
thereof in any form and certify same to Altera.

5. Limited Warranty and Remedies:  For a period of ninety (90) days
from the date of Licensee's first receipt from Altera or the Altera
Authorized Distributor, as the case may be, of the software protection
code or key to enable the Licensed Program, Altera warrants to
Licensee that (a) the Licensed Program will perform substantially in
accordance with Altera's current program documentation, if used in
compliance with the terms of this Agreement, and (b) the DVD, if any,
on which the Software is furnished will be free from defects in
materials and workmanship under normal use. This warranty is limited
to Licensee and is not transferable.

During the 90-day warranty period, (1) Altera (directly or through the
Altera Authorized Distributor) will replace any Licensed Program or
DVD not meeting the foregoing warranty and which is returned to Altera
or the Altera Authorized Distributor with adequate proof of purchase;
or (2) if Altera (directly or through the Altera Authorized
Distributor) is unable to deliver a replacement Licensed Program that
performs substantially in accordance with Altera's current program
documentation or a DVD that is free of defects in materials or
workmanship, Licensee may terminate this Agreement by returning the
Software to Altera. Any replacement Licensed Program or DVD will be
warranted for the remainder of the original warranty period or thirty
(30) days, whichever is longer.

THE FOREGOING WARRANTY DOES NOT EXTEND TO ANY DVD THAT HAS BEEN
DAMAGED AS A RESULT OF ACCIDENT, MISUSE, ABUSE, OR AS A RESULT OF
SERVICE OR MODIFICATION BY ANYONE OTHER THAN ALTERA OR THE ALTERA
AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR.

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH ABOVE, NO OTHER WARRANTIES OR
CONDITIONS, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE WITH RESPECT TO THE
SOFTWARE OR SUPPORT PROVIDED BY ALTERA OR ANY ALTERA AUTHORIZED
DISTRIBUTOR, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND WARRANTIES OR
CONDITIONS OF TITLE AND NONINFRINGEMENT, AND ALTERA AND THE ALTERA
AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES NOT STATED
HEREIN. LICENSEE ASSUMES THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE. SHOULD THE SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE,
LICENSEE AND NOT ALTERA OR THE ALTERA AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR SHALL
ASSUME THE ENTIRE COST OF NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR, OR CORRECTION.
Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion of implied warranties,
so the above exclusion may not apply to Licensee in full, but shall be
interpreted to apply to the maximum extent permissible under
applicable law.

ALTERA AND THE ALTERA AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR DO NOT WARRANT THAT THE
FUNCTIONS CONTAINED IN THE SOFTWARE WILL MEET LICENSEE'S REQUIREMENTS,
OR THAT THE OPERATION OF THE SOFTWARE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR
ERROR-FREE. LICENSEE ALSO ASSUMES RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE SELECTION OF
THE SOFTWARE TO ACHIEVE LICENSEE'S INTENDED RESULTS AND FOR THE
INSTALLATION, USE, AND RESULTS OBTAINED FROM THE SOFTWARE.

LICENSEE'S SOLE REMEDIES AND ALTERA'S AND THE ALTERA AUTHORIZED
DISTRIBUTOR'S ENTIRE LIABILITY ARE AS SET FORTH ABOVE.  IN NO EVENT
WILL ALTERA AND THE ALTERA AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR BE LIABLE TO
LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER PERSON FOR ANY DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, EXPENSES,
RECALL COSTS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION DAMAGES, LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO
INFORMATION, LOST PROFITS, LOST SAVINGS, OR OTHER DAMAGES ARISING OUT
OF THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE OR ANY SUPPORT PROVIDED
BY ALTERA OR THE ALTERA AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR. Some jurisdictions do
not allow the limitation or exclusion of special, incidental, or
consequential damages, so the above limitations or exclusions may not
apply to Licensee in full but shall be interpreted to apply to the
maximum extent permissible under applicable law.

THIS WARRANTY GIVES LICENSEE SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS, AND LICENSEE MAY
ALSO HAVE OTHER RIGHTS WHICH VARY FROM JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION.
To the extent that the Software is derived from third-party software,
no such third party warrants the Software, assumes any liability
regarding use of the Software or undertakes to furnish Licensee any
support or information relating to the Software.

6. Representations:  Altera represents to Licensee that Altera has the
right to enter into this Agreement. With the exception of any portion
of the Software that is licensed by Altera from its Third Party
Licensors, the Software is proprietary to Altera.

7. General:  Under no circumstances shall Altera or an Altera
Authorized Distributor be liable to any party in an amount beyond the
greater of ten dollars or the license fee paid by Licensee to Altera
or the Altera Authorized Distributor for the Licensed Program,
Software, or Support covered by this Agreement.  Licensee may not
sublicense, assign, or transfer the license, the Software, or disclose
any trade secrets embodied in the Software, except as expressly
provided in this Agreement. Any attempt otherwise to sublicense,
assign, or transfer any of the rights, duties, or obligations
hereunder is void and shall automatically terminate this license.
Licensee agrees not to knowingly, directly or indirectly, without the
prior written consent, if required, of the Office of Export
Administration of the US Department of Commerce, Washington D.C.
20230, export or transmit any of the Software, or any direct product
thereof, to any country to which such transmission is restricted by
applicable regulations or statutes.

This Agreement is entered into for the benefit of Altera, the Altera
Authorized Distributor, and the Third Party Licensors, and all rights
granted to Licensee and all obligations owed to Altera and the Altera
Authorized Distributor shall be enforceable by Altera, the Altera
Authorized Distributor, and the Third Party Licensors.  No
modification of this Agreement will be binding unless in writing and
signed by authorized representatives of each party.  If any of the
provisions of this Agreement are held to be in violation of applicable
law, void or unenforceable, then such provisions are herewith waived
or amended to the extent necessary for the Agreement to be otherwise
enforceable.  If Licensee has any questions concerning this Agreement,
including software maintenance or warranty service, Licensee should
contact Altera Corporation, 101 Innovation Drive, San Jose, CA 95134.


This Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of
California, United States of America. Licensee agrees to submit to the
exclusive jurisdiction of the courts in the County of Santa Clara,
State of California for the resolution of any dispute or claim arising
out of or relating to this Agreement.  The prevailing party in any
legal action or arbitration arising out of this Agreement shall be
entitled to reimbursement for its expenses, including court costs and
reasonable attorneys' fees, in addition to any other rights and
remedies such party may have.

BY INSTALLING OR USING THE SOFTWARE OR BY PAYING A SUBSCRIPTION OR
OTHER APPLICABLE FEE, LICENSEE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT LICENSEE HAS READ
THIS AGREEMENT, UNDERSTANDS IT, AND AGREES TO BE BOUND BY ITS TERMS
AND CONDITIONS. LICENSEE FURTHER AGREES THAT IT IS THE COMPLETE AND
EXCLUSIVE STATEMENT OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN LICENSEE AND ALTERA AND
SUPERSEDES ANY PROPOSAL OR PRIOR AGREEMENT, ORAL OR WRITTEN, AND ANY
OTHER COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN LICENSEE AND ALTERA RELATING TO THE
SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS AGREEMENT.

8. U.S. Government Restricted Rights: The Software and any
accompanying documentation are commercial products. Use, duplication,
release, modification, transfer or disclosure thereof by the U.S.
Government is subject to restrictions as set forth in subparagraph (c)
of The Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software clause at DFARS
252.227-7013 or subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2) of Commercial Computer
Software--Restricted Rights at 48 FAR 52.227-19, as applicable, or in
similar or successor clauses in the FAR, DFAR, or DOD or applicable
supplements, including NASA or FAR. Contractor/manufacturer is Altera
Corporation, 101 Innovation Drive, San Jose, CA 95134 and its
licensors.

9. TalkBack Feature Notice :  The TalkBack feature, included with the
Software, enables Altera to receive limited information concerning the
Software that Licensee uses and Licensee's compilation of logic
designs (but not the logic design files themselves) using the
Software.  One of the primary purposes of the TalkBack feature is to
assist Altera in understanding how its customers use the Software and
Altera's other products, so more effort can be placed on improving the
features most important to users.  To disable/enable the TalkBack
feature, run qtb_install.exe located in Licensee's quartus/bin folder.

INFORMATION COLLECTED
The only information that Altera will receive through the TalkBack
feature is the information listed below.  No design files will be
collected or transmitted through the TalkBack feature.

Logic design compilation information regarding the following
categories will be collected: constraints (e.g., location assignments,
clock and timing requirement and assignments, any constraints set via
the Quartus? II graphical user interface), device (e.g., targeted
device and family), compilation (e.g., device, memory and I/O
utilization, time of compilation), design (e.g., the number of each
type of file used and name of top file, intellectual property
cores/MegaCore(r) logic functions used), software tools (e.g.,
synthesis, simulation and timing analysis tools used and version and
build of the Software), platform (e.g., operating system, speed and
number of processors and main memory), license file identification
number (T-Guard, host ID, NIC ID or C: drive), graphical user
interface activities and software errors log (e.g., previous exit
status).

TRANSMISSION OF INFORMATION
The TalkBack feature functions by bundling the collected information
resulting from Licensee's installation and/or execution of the
Software and each logic design compilation and writing it to XML files
which are transmitted to Altera's external web server by https
(hypertext transfer protocol secure) post.

The TalkBack feature will only maintain up to fifteen (15) files at
any given time, i.e., the last five (5) sent files and up to ten (10)
unsent files.  As new files are created, prior files (whether or not
previously transmitted) will be deleted.  Each saved file will be less
than 500 KB in size and can be viewed as text files found in
Licensee's temporary directory on Licensee's hard drive (typically in
/tmp, c:/temp, or c:\documents and setting\username\local
settings\temp).

If an https post transmission fails, or an internet connection is not
available at the time of installation, execution or compilation, the
information is stored as an XML file.  Once an internet connection is
achieved by Licensee, the https post transmission will again be
attempted upon a successful compilation.  The TalkBack feature will
not initiate an internet connection.  Files that have not been
successfully transmitted will be named "quartus_talkback*.xml", while
successfully transmitted files will be renamed as
"sent_quartus_talkback*.xml."

The collection and bundling of information by the TalkBack feature
will not materially affect the installation, compilation time or the
performance of the Software.

Altera uses reasonable efforts to maintain the privacy of the
transmitted information.  However, due to technological limitations,
and the risk of unlawful interceptions and accessing of transmissions
and/or data, Altera cannot completely assure Licensee, and Licensee
should not expect, that the information will be absolutely protected
or confidential.  Once received, the transmitted information is
protected from outside Altera by "firewalls."

Should Licensee attempt to tamper with or modify any installation of
the Software in any way (other than as permitted herein or by
Licensee's license), Altera does not take any responsibility regarding
the operation of the TalkBack feature, or the collection and
transmission of data as described herein.

NON-DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION COLLECTED; USE OF INFORMATION
The information collected by the TalkBack feature will not be
disclosed by Altera to any third parties other than its subsidiaries
and the company on behalf of whom Licensee is using the Quartus II
software (collectively, "Partners").  Once the collected data is
received by Altera within its firewall, Altera may correlate the data
collected by the TalkBack feature to determine the identity of the
user and utilize this information internally only on a confidential
basis.  Altera also seeks to require its Partners to exercise
reasonable efforts to maintain the confidentiality of the information.


The information collected by the TalkBack feature will only be used by
Altera and its Partners for marketing and sales research, product
planning and software development purposes (for example, solving
software problems, optimizing software processing and designing future
products to Licensee's needs).    This information will not be used to
send Licensee any sales and marketing communications, and Altera will
only send Licensee such information if Licensee has previously
provided Licensee's consent to receive such communications.  If
Licensee does not wish to receive sales and marketing communications,
Licensee may contact webmaster@altera.com.  In that case, Altera will
use reasonable efforts to promptly remove Licensee from such lists.

EUROPEAN USERS OF THE SOFTWARE: Please note that the TalkBack feature
will collect and provide certain personally identifiable information
to Altera.  By agreeing to this Agreement, Licensee hereby gives
Licensee's consent for Altera to use this information both within and
outside of the European Union for the purposes described in this
TalkBack disclosure notice.

ACCESS TO INFORMATION BY ISPS
Through the https post procedure, Licensee's and Altera's Internet
Service Providers will also receive the information collected by the
TalkBack feature.  However, ALTERA'S ISP does not disclose, share,
release, publish, disseminate, rent or sell any of the information to
any third parties. Licensee should contact Licensee's ISP to determine
their disclosure policies.

REQUIRED DISCLOSURES
In addition to the permitted disclosures described herein, and
regardless of anything herein to the contrary, Altera may disclose
personally identifiable information (collected by the TalkBack feature
and correlated to users), with or without prior notice, when Altera
believes that the law requires it, in response to subpoenas or at the
demand of governmental agencies, to protect its systems or business,
or to respond to an emergency.

ASSIGNMENT
Altera reserves the right to transfer any and all information
collected by the TalkBack feature from users of the Software to a
third party in the event that it sells or transfers substantially all
of its assets related to the Software to such third party.

DISABLING/ENABLING
Licensee may disable/enable the TalkBack feature at any time by
running qtb_install.exe located in Licensee's quartus/bin folder.

10.	Quartus II Notifications Feature Notice : The Quartus II
notifications feature, included with the Licensed Program(s), enables
ALTERA to receive limited information concerning the Licensed
Program(s) that you use and your compilation of logic designs (but not
the logic design files themselves) using the Licensed Program(s). The
primary purpose of the Quartus II notifications feature is to help
users monitor their compliations from any location and receive
notifications when their jobs complete. To disable/enable the Quartus
II notifications feature, individual users may make the appropriate
setting in the Quartus II software "Options > Internet Connectivity >
Notifications" dialog box. Administrators may also, at install time,
deselect the entire feature to prevent the feature from being exposed
to their users in corporate or team environments.

INFORMATION COLLECTED
The only information that ALTERA will receive through the Quartus II
notifications feature is the information listed below. No design files
will be collected or transmitted through the Quartus II notifications
feature.

The following information may be transmitted to a cloud server, either
hosted by ALTERA or an ALTERA service provider, to enable the feature
from the Quartus II software: project revision name, local computer
hostname, progress tracking information (such as the percentage
complete for the overall compile as well as individual Quartus II
executable stages), and critical warnings or error messages.

TRANSMISSION OF INFORMATION
The Quartus II notifications feature functions by periodically sending
status information resulting from the execution of the Licensed
Program(s) and each logic design compilation and sending them to
ALTERA'S external web server by https (hypertext transfer protocol
secure) network connections.  The Quartus II software must be
preconfigured with the user's ALTERA cloud user account (available to
any customer by registering at https://cloud.altera.com with a valid
email address) for the feature to work. If the user's ALTERA cloud
account is deleted or revoked, then the Quartus II software will not
send any status information for the Quartus II notifications feature
to the ALTERA cloud server.

If an https transmission fails, or an internet connection is not
available at the time of execution or compilation, the Quartus II
notifications feature will abandon attempts to send the status
information during the remaining course of the compilation. The
collection and bundling of information by the Quartus II notifications
feature will not materially affect the installation, compilation time
or the performance of the Licensed Program(s).

ALTERA uses reasonable efforts to maintain the privacy of the
transmitted information. However, due to technological limitations,
and the risk of unlawful interceptions and accessing of transmissions
and/or data, ALTERA cannot completely assure you, and you should not
expect, that the information will be absolutely protected or
confidential. Once received, the transmitted information is protected
from outside ALTERA by "firewalls."

Should you attempt to tamper with or modify any installation of the
Licensed Program(s) in any way (other than as permitted herein or by
your license), ALTERA does not take any responsibility regarding the
operation of the Quartus II notifications feature, or the collection
and transmission of data as described herein.

ACCESS TO INFORMATION ON THE ALTERA CLOUD SITE
All users have the ability to view the compile data transmitted by
logging into the https://cloud.altera.com ALTERA cloud site with the
same user account specified when enabling the Quartus II notifications
feature.  From this site, users can browse the compile status data, or
delete/purge results as they wish.

NON-DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION COLLECTED; USE OF INFORMATION
The information collected by the Quartus II notifications feature will
not be disclosed by ALTERA to any third parties other than as
necessary for the purposes described in this Quartus II notifications
disclosure notice, including third-party providers, its subsidiaries
and the company on behalf of whom you are using the Quartus II
software (collectively, Partners) . Once the collected data is
received by ALTERA within their firewall, ALTERA may correlate the
data collected by the Quartus II notifications feature to determine
the identity of the user and utilize this information internally only
on a confidential basis. ALTERA also seeks to require its Partners to
exercise reasonable efforts to maintain the confidentiality of the
information.

The information collected by the Quartus II notifications feature will
only be used by ALTERA and its Partners for marketing and sales
research , product planning and software development purposes (for
example, solving software problems, optimizing software processing and
designing future products to your needs). This information will not be
used to send you any sales and marketing communications, and ALTERA
will only send you such information if you have previously provided
your consent to receive such communications. If you do not wish to
receive sales and marketing communications, you may contact
webmaster@altera.com. In that case, we will use reasonable efforts to
promptly remove you from such lists.

EUROPEAN USERS OF THE SOFTWARE: Please note that the Quartus II
notifications feature will collect and provide certain personally
identifiable information to ALTERA. By agreeing to this Program
Subscription License Agreement, you hereby give your consent for
ALTERA to use this information both within and outside of the European
Union for the purposes described in this Quartus II notifications
disclosure notice.

ACCESS TO INFORMATION BY ISPS
Through the https post procedure, your and ALTERA's Internet Service
Providers will also receive the information collected by the Quartus
II notifications feature. However, ALTERA'S ISP does not disclose,
share, release, publish, disseminate, rent or sell any of the
information to any third parties. You should contact your ISP to
determine their disclosure policies.

REQUIRED DISCLOSURES
In addition to the permitted disclosures described herein, and
regardless of anything herein to the contrary, ALTERA may disclose
personally identifiable information (collected by the Quartus II
notifications feature and correlated to users), with or without prior
notice, when ALTERA believes that the law requires it, in response to
subpoenas or at the demand of governmental agencies, to protect its
systems or business, or to respond to an emergency.

ASSIGNMENT
ALTERA reserves the right to transfer any and all information
collected by the Quartus II notifications feature from users of the
Licensed Program(s) to a third party in the event that it sells or
transfers substantially all of its assets related to the Licensed
Program(s) to such third party.

DISABLING/ENABLING
The Quartus II notifications feature may be deselected at install time
to allow administrators to prevent the feature from being exposed to
their users in corporate or team environments. If installed, you may
disable/enable the Quartus II notifications feature at any time by
making the appropriate setting in the Quartus II "Options > Internet
Connectivity > Notifications" dialog box in the Quartus II software
graphical user interface.

Altera Program Subscription License Agreement (c) 2012 Altera
Corporation.  All rights reserved. Quartus is a registered trademark
of Altera Corporation in the US and other countries.


[END OF ALTERA PROGRAM SUBSCRIPTION LICENSE AGREEMENT]


LICENSE.TXT FILE TO ALTERA PROGRAM SUBSCRIPTION LICENSE AGREEMENT:

YOUR USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IS GOVERNED BY THE STANDARD ALTERA PROGRAM
LICENSE SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT ("THE AGREEMENT").  HOWEVER, THE
FOLLOWING NOTICES ARE PROVIDED AS REQUIRED BY THE APPLICABLE LICENSE
AGREEMENT BETWEEN ALTERA AND THE THIRD PARTIES WHO HAVE PROVIDED  THE
FOLLOWING CODE AND DOCUMENTATION UNDER LICENSE TO ALTERA AS SPECIFIED
IN SECTION 3 OF THE AGREEMENT.

1. APACHE (XERCES COMPILED LIBRARY) [FOR QUARTUS II]:

The following terms only apply to the Apache software portions of the
Quartus II development tools:

 * The Apache Software License, Version 1.1
 *
 *
 * Copyright (c) 1999-2000 The Apache Software Foundation.  All rights

 * reserved.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 *
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 *
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
 *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
 *    distribution.
 *
 * 3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution,
 *    if any, must include the following acknowledgment:
 *       "This product includes software developed by the
 *        Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/)."
 *    Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software
itself,
 *    if and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally
appear.
 *
 * 4. The names "Xerces" and "Apache Software Foundation" must
 *    not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
 *    software without prior written permission. For written
 *    permission, please contact apache@apache.org.
 *
 * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "Apache",
 *    nor may "Apache" appear in their name, without prior written
 *    permission of the Apache Software Foundation.
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED
 * WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
 * OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
 * DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE APACHE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION OR
 * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
 * LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
 * USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
 * ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
 * OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
 * OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
 * SUCH DAMAGE.
 *
====================================================================
 *
 * This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many
 * individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation and was
 * originally based on software copyright (c) 1999, International
 * Business Machines, Inc., http://www.ibm.com.  For more
 * information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see
 * <http://www.apache.org/>.
